---
title: 0210-US-Japan joint leaders' statement
cover: /assets/EngLearn/world2025/250210.png
date: 2025-02-10
article: true
star: false
timeline: false
toc: false
sidebar: false
---
Feb. 10, 2025
<!-- more -->


### UNITED STATES-JAPAN JOINT LEADERS’ STATEMENT[^t1]

&nbsp; President Donald 
<span class="hover-note">
J.
<span class="hover-content">
J. 是 John 的缩写 <br>
Jr. 是 Junior 的缩写
</span></span>
 Trump and Prime Minister Ishiba Shigeru held their first official meeting today in Washington, D.C., where they affirmed their determination to pursue a new golden age for U.S.-Japan relations 
<span class="hover-note">
that
<span class="hover-content">
此处 that 指 golden age
</span></span>
<span class="space"> </span>
<span class="hover-note">
 upholds
<span class="hover-content">
uphold: 维护 v.
</span></span>
 a free and open Indo-Pacific and brings peace and prosperity to a violent and disorderly world. 
 
&nbsp; U.S.-Japan Cooperation for Peace

&nbsp; The two leaders expressed their shared desire for bilateral security and defense cooperation 
<span class="hover-note">
under
<span class="hover-content">
under: 根据
</span></span>
 the U.S.-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security to grow stronger than 
<span class="hover-note">
ever,
<span class="hover-content">
ever: 以往任何时候 adv.
</span></span>
 and emphasized that the U.S.-Japan Alliance remains the 
<span class="hover-note">
cornerstone
<span class="hover-content">
cornerstone: 基石
</span></span>
 of peace, security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific and 
<span class="hover-note">
beyond.
<span class="hover-content">
beyond: 更远处 adv. <br>
and beyond 可以译为：以及其它...
</span></span>
 Japan 
<span class="hover-note">
reiterated
<span class="hover-content">
reiterate: 重申 v.
</span></span>
 its 
<span class="hover-note">
unwavering
<span class="hover-content">
unwavering: 坚定不移的
</span></span>
 commitment to fundamentally 
<span class="hover-note">
reinforce
<span class="hover-content">
reinforce: 加强
</span></span>
 its own defense capabilities, which the United States welcomed.
 
&nbsp; The United States 
<span class="hover-note">
underscored
<span class="hover-content">
underscore: 强调
</span></span>
 its unwavering commitment to the defense of Japan, using its full range of capabilities, including nuclear capabilities. The two leaders reaffirmed that Article V of the U.S.-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security applies to the 
<span class="hover-note">
Senkaku
<span class="hover-content">
the Senkaku Islands: 尖阁列岛<br>
即钓鱼岛 the Diaoyu Islands
</span></span>
 Islands, and reiterated their strong opposition to any action that seeks to undermine Japan’s longstanding and peaceful 
<span class="hover-note">
administration
<span class="hover-content">
administration: 治理
</span></span>
 of the Senkaku Islands.

[^t1]: 美日联合领导人声明