---
title: 0224-US grants or loans?
cover: /assets/EngLearn/world2025/25024.jpg
date: 2025-02-24
article: true
star: false
timeline: false
toc: false
sidebar: false
---
Feb. 24, 2025
<!-- more -->

## US aid to Ukraine provided as grants, not loans: Zelenskyy[^t1]

&nbsp; The US 
<span class="hover-note">
aid
<span class="hover-content">
aid: 援助 n.
</span></span>
 to Ukraine was provided as 
<span class="hover-note">
grants,
<span class="hover-content">
grands: 赠款
</span></span>
 not loans, said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Sunday, rejecting claims that $500 billion in assistance should be treated as debt.


&nbsp; Washington gave Kyiv $100 billion in aid during three years of war, Zelenskyy told reporters at a news conference, adding that they need to sign an agreement that will be a "win-win" for both the US and Ukraine and "pleasant" for both parties.

&nbsp; “I know we received $100 billion, but I’m not going to recognize $500 billion—no matter what anyone says, with all 
<span class="hover-note">
due
<span class="hover-content">
due: 应有的 <br>
attach due important to sth.
</span></span>
 respect to our partners” Zelenskyy stated.

&nbsp; He underscored that his agreement with President Joe Biden classified the financial assistance as a grant, not a loan.

&nbsp; “A grant is not a debt. I don’t even recognize the $100 billion as a debt, and we won’t accept it as such,” he said.

&nbsp; Zelenskyy made it clear that he would not sign any deal that would force future generations of Ukrainians to bear the financial burden.

&nbsp; Zelenskyy expressed his 
<span class="hover-note">
readiness
<span class="hover-content">
readiness: 意愿 <br>
readiness to ...
</span></span>
 to 
<span class="hover-note">
leave his post
<span class="hover-content">
leave post: 发布
</span></span>
 "if it is absolutely necessary," adding he can exchange it for NATO membership if such conditions exist.

&nbsp; The Ukrainian president said the Trump administration is not forever, "but we need peace for many years."

[^t1]: 泽伦斯基：美国对乌克兰的援助是赠款，而不是贷款