---
title: 0218-Grok 3
cover: /assets/EngLearn/world2025/250218.jpg
date: 2025-02-18
article: true
star: false
timeline: false
toc: false
sidebar: false
---
Feb. 18, 2025
<!-- more -->

## Elon Musk’s AI company, xAI, releases its latest flagship model, Grok 3[^t1]


&nbsp; Elon Musk’s AI company, xAI, released its latest flagship AI model, Grok 3, 
<span class="hover-note">
late
<span class="hover-content">
late Monday night: 周一深夜
</span></span>
 Monday night, along with new capabilities in the Grok apps for iOS and the web.

&nbsp; Grok, xAI’s answer to models like OpenAI’s GPT-4o and Google’s Gemini, can analyze images and respond to questions, and 
<span class="hover-note">
powers
<span class="hover-content">
power: 提供支持 v.
</span></span>
 a number of 
<span class="hover-note">
features
<span class="hover-content">
feature: 功能
</span></span>
 on Musk’s social network, X. Grok 3, which has been in development for several months, was 
<span class="hover-note">
optimistically
<span class="hover-content">
optimistically: 乐观地
</span></span>
<span class="space"> </span>
<span class="hover-note">
 slated
<span class="hover-content">
slate: 安排
</span></span>
 for release in 2024, but missed that deadline.

&nbsp; xAI has been using an enormous data center in Memphis — a data center 
<span class="hover-note">
containing
<span class="hover-content">
containing 可用 boosting / with 替换，译为拥有
</span></span>
 around 200,000 GPUs — to train Grok 3. In a post on X, Musk claimed that Grok 3 was developed with “10x” more computing than Grok 2, its <span class="hover-note">
 predecessor,
<span class="hover-content">
predecessor: 前任 <br>
successor: 继任
</span></span>
 and with an expanded training data set that 
<span class="hover-note">
ostensibly
<span class="hover-content">
ostensibly: 据称
</span></span>
 includes 
<span class="hover-note">
filings
<span class="hover-content">
filing: 存档
</span></span>
 from court cases.

&nbsp; “Grok 3 is an order of magnitude more capable than Grok 2,” Musk said during a live-streamed presentation Monday. “[It’s a] maximally truth-seeking AI, even if that truth is sometimes 
<span class="hover-note">
at odds with
<span class="hover-content">
at odds with: 与...不一致
</span></span>
 what is politically correct.”

&nbsp; Grok 3 is a family of models, to be precise — not just one. A smaller version of Grok 3, Grok 3 mini, responds to questions more quickly at the cost of some accuracy. Not all models are available 
<span class="hover-note">
as of yet
<span class="hover-content">
as of yet: 迄今为止
</span></span>
 (and some are in beta), but the 
<span class="hover-note">
rollout
<span class="hover-content">
推出
</span></span>
 begins on Monday.

&nbsp; xAI claims that Grok 3 beats GPT-4o on 
<span class="hover-note">
benchmarks
<span class="hover-content">
benchmarks: 基准测试
</span></span>
 including AIME, which evaluates a model’s performance on a sampling of math questions, and GPQA, which assesses models using PhD-level physics, biology, and chemistry problems. An early version of Grok 3 also scored competitively in Chatbot Arena, a 
<span class="hover-note">
crowdsourced
<span class="hover-content">
crowdsourced: 众包的，源自大众的 <br>
crowdsourced test: 众包测试
</span></span>
 test that pits different AI models against each other and has users vote on their preferred responses, according to xAI.


[^t1]: Elon Musk 的 AI 公司，xAI，发布了它的最新旗舰模型，Grok 3