---
title: 0222-US objects to calling out 'Russian aggression'
cover: /assets/EngLearn/world2025/250223.jpeg
date: 2025-02-23
article: true
star: false
timeline: false
toc: false
sidebar: false
---
Feb. 23, 2025
<!-- more -->


## Leading brands by EV sales in Europe in 2024

&nbsp; Tesla topped the European EV market for the third year 
<span class="hover-note">
in a row,
<span class="hover-content">
in a row: 连续... <br>
the third year in a row: 连续第三年
</span></span>
 with the Model Y and Model 3 leading the continent’s plug-in market at the end of 2024. The manufacturer reached 328,036 
<span class="hover-note">
deliveries
<span class="hover-content">
deliveries: 交付量
</span></span>
 from January to December, more than 35,000 units ahead of second place.

&nbsp; BMW 
<span class="hover-note">
secured
<span class="hover-content">
secure second: 取得第二
</span></span>
 second, replicating its result from 2023. This was thanks to 292,407 registrations, representing an increase of 10.7% 
<span class="hover-note">
or
<span class="hover-content">
or: 即 <br>
比较规范的用法在 or 前面要加 ","
</span></span>
 28,156 units 
<span class="hover-note">
year on year.
<span class="hover-content">
同比，与去年同期相比
</span></span>

&nbsp; Third place went to Mercedes-Benz, improving on its fourth-place finish in 2023. It posted a record 258,677 registrations.

&nbsp; Volvo finished 2024 in fourth, a significant progression from its sixth-place finish in 2023. The manufacturer reached a 
<span class="hover-note">
best-ever
<span class="hover-content">
best-ever: 史上最好
</span></span>
 total of 239,255 deliveries, a 42% surge year on year.

&nbsp; In fifth came Volkswagen (VW), falling from third place in the previous year. The carmaker suffered a 6.7% decline in volumes, with 229,836 deliveries.

&nbsp; Audi landed in sixth. EV registrations for the brand dropped 0.8% to 172,665 units, meaning it fell one position compared to 2023.

&nbsp; Seventh was taken by Kia, with 118,264 deliveries.

&nbsp; Peugeot took eighth, also replicating its performance from the previous year. However, its total of 115,771 registrations was down 10.9% and 14,174 units year on year.

&nbsp; In ninth, Skoda moved up two places from its 2023 result. The carmaker saw 
<span class="hover-note">
volumes
<span class="hover-content">
volumes: 销量
</span></span>
 rise 4.1% compared to the previous reporting period, with 101,629 deliveries.

&nbsp; Hyundai 
<span class="hover-note">
rounded out
<span class="hover-content">
round out: 激升
</span></span>
 the top 10, matching its 2023 ranking. Yet, the brand recorded a 14.6% decline in registrations, with 94,258 units.