---
title: 0221-Japan sees foreign visitors soar
cover: /assets/EngLearn/world2025/250221.jpg
date: 2025-02-21
article: true
star: false
timeline: false
toc: false
sidebar: false
---
Feb. 21, 2025
<!-- more -->

## Japan sees foreign visitors soar 41% in January to record 3.78m

&nbsp; The number of foreign visitors to Japan in January rose by more than a million from the previous year, hitting a record 3.78 million, driven by a jump in tourists from the Chinese mainland during the Lunar New Year holiday. The 
<span class="hover-note">
figure
<span class="hover-content">
figure: 数字 <br>
the figure 此处指代 3.78 million
</span></span>
 represents an increase of 40.6% on the year.

&nbsp; The sharpest rise in six months was also driven by a strong increase in travelers from China's Hong Kong and Taiwan Province, as well as more visitors from Australia and the United States for snow sports, the Japan National Tourism Organization said.

&nbsp; 980,300 people visited Japan from China's mainland in January, more than double the 416,088 in the same month last year, as flights between the neighbors increased and the Lunar holidays started in January this year, the organization said.

&nbsp; South Korea ranked second with 967,100 visitors, up 12.8 percent, 
<span class="hover-note">
followed by
<span class="hover-content">
followed by: 紧随其后
</span></span>
 China's Taiwan Province with 593,400, a 20.5 percent jump, and China's Hong Kong with 243,700, increasing 30.8 percent, the organization's preliminary data showed.

&nbsp; The number of travelers from Australia climbed 35.3 percent to 140,200 and those from the United States gained 38.4 percent to 182,500.

&nbsp; The strong growth in January comes as the number of foreign visitors to Japan soared 47.1 percent to a record 36.87 million in 2024, boosted by a weak yen and the 
<span class="hover-note">
resumption
<span class="hover-content">
resumption: 重新开始
</span></span>
 of flights to Japan after the removal of COVID-19 restrictions.