---
title: 0219-KFC leaves Kentucky home
cover: /assets/EngLearn/world2025/250219.jpg
date: 2025-02-19
article: true
star: false
timeline: false
toc: false
sidebar: false
---
Feb. 19, 2025
<!-- more -->

## Fast-food giant KFC leaves Kentucky home for Texas

&nbsp; KFC, the fast-food restaurant chain 
<span class="hover-note">
formerly
<span class="hover-content">
formerly: 之前
</span></span>
 known as Kentucky Fried Chicken, is moving its corporate headquarters in the US from Louisville in Kentucky to Plano in Texas, according to a statement from its parent company, 
<span class="hover-note">
Yum Brands.
<span class="hover-content">
Yum Brands: 百盛
</span></span>

&nbsp; About 100 corporate employees and dozens 
<span class="hover-note">
more
<span class="hover-content">
dozens more 在此处译为 "另外的数十名"
</span></span>
 remote workers will be required to move and will receive relocation support.

&nbsp; The decision by Yum Brands is part of a plan to have two headquarters for its main brands — KFC and Pizza Hut will be headquartered in Plano, while Taco Bell and Habit Burger & Grill will remain in Irvine, California.

&nbsp; In recent years, many companies have relocated to Texas attracted by the state's lower taxes and business-friendly policies.

&nbsp; "These changes position us for sustainable growth and will help us better serve our customers, employees, 
<span class="hover-note">
franchisees
<span class="hover-content">
franchisees: 加盟商
</span></span>
 and shareholders," said David Gibbs, the chief executive of Yum Brands in the company's statement.

&nbsp; Yum also expressed hope the plan will boost collaboration between its employees and brands.

&nbsp; The statement added that Yum will be maintaining its corporate offices as well as the KFC Foundation in Louisville.

&nbsp; The governor of the state of Kentucky, Andy Beshea, has criticised the move to relocate KFC's headquarters, according to a statement given to the Associated Press.

&nbsp; "I am disappointed by this decision and believe the company's founder would be, too," Mr Beshear reportedly said.

&nbsp; "This company's name starts with Kentucky, and it has marketed our state's 
<span class="hover-note">
heritage
<span class="hover-content">
heritage: 遗产，传统
</span></span>
 and culture in the sale of its product."

&nbsp; KFC's history in the state dates back to the 1930s, when its founder Colonel Harland Sanders began selling fried chicken at a 
<span class="hover-note">
service station
<span class="hover-content">
service station = gas station
</span></span>
 in Corbin.

&nbsp; Today, Sanders' face is 
<span class="hover-note">
emblazoned
<span class="hover-content">
emblazon: 颂扬
</span></span>
 on the shop fronts of more than 24,000 KFC restaurants in over 145 countries and territories around the world.

&nbsp; Since the pandemic, many US companies have moved their headquarters. According to a report by real estate services firm CBRE, Austin and other Texan cities have been particularly successful due to the state's business-friendly environment.