---
title: 0207-Trump admin sues Chicago
cover: /assets/EngLearn/world2025/250207.jpg
date: 2025-02-07
article: true
star: false
timeline: false
toc: false
sidebar: false
---
Feb. 07, 2025
<!-- more -->

### Trump administration sues Chicago over 'sanctuary city' laws[^t1]


&nbsp; The US justice department has 
<span class="hover-note">
filed
<span class="hover-content">
file: 提起 <br>
file a lawsuit: 提起一起诉讼
</span></span>
 a lawsuit against Chicago, accusing local officials of 
<span class="hover-note">
impeding
<span class="hover-content">
impede: 阻碍 v.
</span></span>
 federal immigration enforcement efforts 
<span class="hover-note">
amid
<span class="hover-content">
amid: 在...之际
</span></span>
 Donald Trump's 
<span class="hover-note">
drive
<span class="hover-content">
drive: 努力，推动
</span></span>
 to 
<span class="hover-note">
ramp up
<span class="hover-content">
ramp up: 加大
</span></span>
 deportations.

&nbsp; The lawsuit - which mentions Illinois Governor JB Pritzker and Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson - also 
<span class="hover-note">
seeks to 
<span class="hover-content">
seek to: 试图做...
</span></span>
<span class="space"> </span>
<span class="hover-note">
block
<span class="hover-content">
block: 组织 v.
</span></span>
 local laws 
<span class="hover-note">
it
<span class="hover-content">
it claims ... 是前面省略了 that 的定语从句 <br>
此处 it 指代 the lawsuit
</span></span>
<span class="space"> </span>
<span class="hover-note">
 claims
<span class="hover-content">
claims 后面省略了 that, 引导宾语从句(宾语从句中省略了主语 local laws) <br>
此处也可将 it claims 整体视为插入语
</span></span>
 "interfere with and discriminate against" federal immigration policy.[^s1]

&nbsp; The Illinois city is one of several that have vowed to 
<span class="hover-note">
push back against
<span class="hover-content">
push back against: 阻止...
</span></span>
 efforts to arrest and deport undocumented migrants, posing a challenge to the Trump administration's policies.

&nbsp; This week, new 
<span class="hover-note">
Attorney General
<span class="hover-content">
Attorney General: 司法部长
</span></span>
 Pam Bondi also vowed to 
<span class="hover-note">
slash
<span class="hover-content">
slash: 削减 v.
</span></span>
 federal funding to so-called "sanctuary cities".

&nbsp; The term "sanctuary city" has been popular in the US for more than a decade to describe places that limit their assistance to federal immigration 
<span class="hover-note">
authorities.
<span class="hover-content">
authorities: 有关部门
</span></span>

&nbsp; Since it is not a legal term, cities have taken a variety of approaches to becoming "sanctuaries", such as setting policies in law or simply changing local policing practices.

&nbsp; <span class="space"> </span>
<span class="hover-note">
In the case of
<span class="hover-content">
in the case of: 就...而言
</span></span>
 Illinois, the state's "Trust Act" prevents local law enforcement from holding a suspect solely because of an immigration detainer or warrant, and prevents local agencies from helping with immigration operations or sharing information about detainees.

&nbsp; A similar 
<span class="hover-note">
 ordinance 
<span class="hover-content">
ordinance: 法令 <br>
= decree
</span></span>
 in Chicago forbids city agencies and employees from helping, and prevents Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) 
<span class="hover-note">
agents
<span class="hover-content">
agent: 执法人员 n.
</span></span>
 from accessing detainees or using 
<span class="hover-note">
city facilities
<span class="hover-content">
city facilities: 市政设施
</span></span>
 for investigations.

&nbsp; The lawsuit seeks to block these and similar laws, arguing that they "impede the Federal Government's ability to 
<span class="hover-note">
regulate
<span class="hover-content">
regulate: 监管 v.
</span></span>
 immigration and take enforcement actions against 
<span class="hover-note">
illegal aliens".
<span class="hover-content">
illegal aliens: 此处指非法外国人
</span></span>


[^t1]: 特朗普政府起诉芝加哥“庇护城市”法律

[^s1]: 原句：The lawsuit also seeks to block local laws it claims interfere with and discriminate against federal immigration policy.

    补充上省略的部分应为：The lawsuit also seeks to block local laws that it claims that (local laws) interfere with and discriminate against federal immigration policy.