---
title: 0216-JD.com moves into food delivery
cover: /assets/EngLearn/world2025/250216.jpeg
date: 2025-02-16
article: true
star: false
timeline: false
toc: false
sidebar: false
---
Feb. 16, 2025
<!-- more -->


## China's JD.com moves into food delivery, starts recruiting restaurants[^t1]

&nbsp; China's e-commerce giant JD.com is venturing into the country's highly competitive food delivery business, announcing on Tuesday that it will register 
<span class="hover-note">
catering
<span class="hover-content">
catering: 餐饮业 <br>
</span></span>
<span class="space"> </span>
<span class="hover-note">
 merchants
 <span class="hover-content">
 merchant: 商家
 </span></span>
  on its courier system.

&nbsp; The company posted on its official Weixin account, inviting merchants: "Join us now, zero 
<span class="hover-note">
commissions
<span class="hover-content">
commission: 佣金, 手续费
</span></span>
 all year round!"

&nbsp; Catering merchants who register with JD Takeaway before May 1 will enjoy commission-free services for the entire year, it said.

&nbsp; JD.com stated in its announcement that JD Takeaway will provide comprehensive support for merchants, aiming to promote the healthy and sustainable development of the food delivery industry.

&nbsp; China's food delivery market is dominated by two players, market leader Meituan and Alibaba's Eleme.

&nbsp; The move comes as JD.com faces significant competition in China's rapidly evolving e-commerce industry. The market is 
<span class="hover-note">
crowded
<span class="hover-content">
be crowded with ...: 充斥了...
</span></span>
 with numerous companies, including established giants Alibaba Group and PDD Holdings, as well as emerging platforms such as Douyin.

&nbsp; Amid an economic slowdown and weakening consumer 
<span class="hover-note">
spending power,
<span class="hover-content">
spending power: 购买力
</span></span>
 JD.com has launched discount campaigns to 
<span class="hover-note">
counter
<span class="hover-content">
counter: 抵制 v.
</span></span>
 the competition. However, these price wars have resulted in a decline in the company's share price.

&nbsp; The company has its own extensive, self-run logistics network that it has built over the years, which allows it to offer same-day or next-day delivery to most of the country's regions.


[^t1]: 中国京东进军外卖行业，开始招募餐厅

    food delivery: 外卖